kidding:                are you kidding me? no kidding. i'm kidding
mind:                   never mind; I changed my mind; do you mind?; would you mind?; are you out of your mind?
figure out:             I'm going to figure it out
to be supposed:         am I supposed to be sorry?; it's supposed to be that small it's pre appetiser
sense:                  sense of humor; five senses; common sense; make sense; it doesn't make sense. 

freak out:              it's kind of freaking me out little bit
mark my words:          mark my words, I will find it; mark my words, I will destroy him
from now on:            from now on, I'm not getting out of this chair, ever; from now on, I'll write two letters a week instead of one

make it count:          go, go, go. 7 years per hour here. let's make it count; let's make every moment count starting now
fine by me/ fine with
                    me: that's not true! any color is fine with me; I'm gonna keep this if you don't mind - fine by me
knock it off:           will you knock it off?; life is not musical, Alan so knock it off

just for the record:    just for the record, having a baby - huge mistake; just for the record, you are not my mother; just for the record, I was right
screw up/screw:         deep breaths, you'll be fine - thank you - no sweat. you're natural. but don't screw up; I know what is to be a friend, I just screwed up; I was just trying to make a good first impression, obviously I screwed up; sometimes daddys screw up, sometimes mommys get upset
give it a shot(to try): I can give it a shot; you know what, I may regret this but I'm gonna give you a shot
worth a shot:           it was worth a shot; are you out of your freaking mind? - it was worth the shot

let me get it/this
              straight: okey, let me get it straight it's okay for you to flirt, but not for me; so, let me get it straight not only have you been lying to me but my daughter has been lying to me?
let's get this over
                  with: okay this is gonna be good for everybody so let's get it over with
turn out:               I'm sure that x-ray will turn out to be nothing at all; turn out your pockets

take a rain check:      you know, I think I'll take a rain check. do you mind if I use  your restroom?; I need a rain check, let me get this
cut to the chase:       all right I will just cut to the chase; can we just cut to the chase; alright, let's just cut to the chase you're single, you're single
make myself clear:      either you choose to be at your desk on time from this day forth, or you choose to find yourself another job. do I make myself clear?; I hope I've made myself clear - crystal

silver lining:          "every cloud has a silver lining" means that even the worst events or situations have some positive aspect
trick of the trade:
lay on:
end up:

it's up to you:         used to tell a person that they are the one to make a decision

look forward to - excited about something in the future : I'm looking forward to my vacation. I'm looking forward to seeing my uncle
put up with - to tolerate
put off - to postpone; push back in time : Don't put off cleaning your room

get up - to rise from bed or any lying position (you can also get up from chair if you're sitting): I got up late today
get along - to have a good relationship (with someone): My sister gets along with everybody
get ahead - to succeed or make progress: If you want to get ahead, work hard
get by - to survive: Can you get by without your cell phone?
get together - to meet: We're getting together for coffee later
flip out - to become extremely angry or to lose control of yourself from surprise or shock
gotta - have got to

Back away! - move backwards, away from something frightening or dangerous
Back off! - (slang – rude) stop bothering or threatening someone
Back up! - move backwards; step backwards; drive backwards
Bear down! - push or press down hard
Bend down! - lean over and forward; lean down
Bend over! - lean forward from the waist
Breathe in! - take a breath in; take air into the lungs
Breathe out! - take a breath out; push air out of the lungs
Brighten up! - be cheerful; be happier
Buckle down! - start working, studying, or doing something else seriously
Buddy up! - find a partner
Bugger off! - (slang – rude) Go away!
Butt out! - (slang ­– rude) don’t interfere
Buzz off! - (slang – rude) Go away!
Calm down! - relax, don’t be angry, don’t be upset, don’t be worried
Carry on! - keep doing what you were doing
Cheer up! - be happier; don’t be sad
Chill out! - relax; don’t be upset or angry
Clean up! - clean yourself or your surroundings
Close down! - close a shop or business so it is not operating
Come back! - return to where you were
Come down! - move down off something high
come south
Come on! - (encouraging someone) do what I am telling you to do
(not believing someone) I don’t believe you
(rushing someone) move faster
Come in! - enter a closed space
Come out! - leave a closed space
Come over! - come to my house; come to where I am
Come up! - move to a higher place
Cool down! - Relax; don’t be upset or angry
Cover up! - put on more clothes
Double up! - form pairs because space or resources are limited
Dream on! - (slang) I don’t think what you have just said will happen
Drink up! - finish your drink
Eat up! - finish your food
Fess up! - (slang) confess / admit what you did; tell the truth about what you did
Finish up! - finish what you have been doing
Fuck off! - (slang – very, very rude) Go away!
Gather around! - make a group and come together in one place
Gear up! - get ready to do something
Get away! - move away; run away; escape
Get down! - come down from a high place
Get in! - go inside something, like a car or bus
Get off! - go out of something, like a bus or train
Get on! - climb on board something moving or about to start moving, like a train
Get out! - (slang ­– rude) Leave this place! (used when angry at someone)
Get up! - become awake; don’t sleep
Give up! - stop doing what you’re doing
give yourself to the police or authorities
Go around! - move to where you need to go by passing some obstacle instead of going straight
Go away! - leave the place where you are
Go back! - return to where you were
Go on! - continue what you were saying
Grow up! - behave in a mature way; don’t act like a child
Hang on! - wait
hold tight
Hang up! - end the phone call
Hold on! - waithold this tight or you might fall
Hurry up! - do whatever you are doing quickly, whether it’s physical or mental
Keep away! - stay away; do not go near
Keep out! - stay outside; do not enter
Lace up! - tie your shoelaces; put on your shoes
Lay off! - (slang – rude) stop doing something that bothers someone
Lie down! - put your body in a horizontal position; relax on a bed or sofa
Lighten up! - cheer up; don’t be so serious or worried
Line up! - make or form a line
Listen up! - listen carefully
Loosen up! - (slang) relax; don’t be so stressed
Move along! - keep moving; don’t stop in this spot
Move back! - move to a place in the back
Move forward! - move to a place in the front
Move on! - continue your life; go on with your life
Open up! - Open the door!
Perk up! - cheer up; don’t be sad
Press on! - keep doing what you need to do; don’t give up
Pull back! - move backward
Quiet down! - stop being noisy
Queue up! - Make or form a line
Saddle up! - Get ready to ride a horse by putting the saddle on the horse
Scoot over! - (slang) move to make space for someone else
Stand up! - stand
Shut up! - (slang – rude) be quiet; stop talking
Sit down! - sit; be seated
Sit up! - sit straight in your chair, bed, etc.
Smarten up! - become more intelligent and aware of what’s happening around you
Speak up! - talk louder
Speed up! - move faster
Stand up! - stand
Stay away! - don’t go near
Straighten up! - stand straight; do not bend
Stretch out! - lie down comfortably
Sum up! - summarize
Take off! - leave fast
Tidy up! - clean the place; put things in the right places
Turn back! - go backwards
Turn over! - move your body so that the other side faces up
Wait up! - wait for me to catch up with you
Wake up! - don’t sleep anymore; become awake
Walk away! - leave a difficult situation
Walk out! - leave a situation because you do not approve of something
leave someone (leave a relationship)
Watch out! - be very careful
Work away! - continue working
Write back! - reply to a letter or email
Look out - to watch what is happening and be careful; said or shouted in order to tell someone that they are in danger
Turn down - to refuse to accept or agree to something, or to refuse someone's request
Let down - to disappoint someone by failing to do what you agreed to do or were expected to do
kick off - to begin
refer sb/sth to sb/sth - to send someone or something to a different place or person for help

How goes? - How is it going? How are you doing? How are you?
How dare you?

5 dads jokes
1. Why couldn't Dracula's wife fall asleep? - Because of his coffin!
2. What kind of music do mummies listen to? - Wrap music!
3. What was Beethoven's favourite food? - BA-NA-NA-NA!
4. Why didn't the shrimp share his treasure? Because he was a little shellfish!
5. What do calendars eat? - Dates!

"keep" idioms
keep word - uphold a promise
keep me posted - keep someone informed
keep an eye out - watch for the arrival or appearance
keep a straight face - keep your face from laughing
keep in mind - remember and think about something

cut it out - stop it
get lost - go away
sleep tight - sleep well
chill out - calm down. relax
dig in - start eating
watch your step - be careful where you're walking
quit your moaning - stop complaining
hang in there - don't give up
hold your horses(also: slow your roll) - wait. stop. slow down. don't get too excited
hold your tongue - stop talking. don't say anything

ain't - am not / is not / are not / has not / have not / did not (colloquial)[1]
amn't - am not[2]
aren't - are not[3]
S'e - oh yeah / yes
Ha'ta - even
can't (rarely, cain't) - cannot
'cause - because
could've - could have
couldn't - could not
couldn't've - could not have
daren't - dare not / dared not
daresn't - dare not
dasn't - dare not
didn't - did not
doesn't - does not
don't - do not / does not[4]
e'er - ever
everyone's - everyone is
finna - fixing to / going to (colloquial)
gimme - give me
giv'n - given
gonna - going to
gon't - go not (colloquial)
gotta - got to
hadn't - had not
hasn't - has not
haven't - have not
he'd - he had / he would
he'll - he shall / he will
he's - he has / he is
he've - he have
how'd - how did / how would
howdy - how do you do / how do you fare
how'll - how will
how're - how are
how's - how has / how is / how does
I'd - I had / I would
I'll - I shall / I will
I'm - I am
I'm'a - I am about to
I'm'o - I am going to
I've - I have
isn't - is not
it'd - it would
it'll - it shall / it will
it's - it has / it is
let's - let us
ma'am - madam
mayn't - may not
may've - may have
mightn't - might not
might've - might have
mustn't - must not
mustn't've - must not have
must've - must have
needn't - need not
ne'er - never
o'clock - of the clock
o'er - over
ol' - old
oughtn't - ought not
's - is, has, does, or us
shalln't - shall not (archaic)
shan't - shall not
she'd - she had / she would
she'll - she shall / she will
she's - she has / she is
should've - should have
shouldn't - should not
shouldn't've - should not have
somebody's - somebody has / somebody is
someone's - someone has / someone is
something's - something has / something is
so're - so are (colloquial)
that'll - that shall / that will
that're - that are
that's - that has / that is
that'd - that would / that had
there'd - there had / there would
there'll - there shall / there will
there're - there are
there's - there has / there is
these're - these are
they'd - they had / they would
they'll - they shall / they will
they're - they are / they were
they've - they have
this's - this has / this is
those're - those are
'tis - it is
to've - to have
'twas - it was
wasn't - was not
we'd - we had / we would
we'd've - we would have
we'll - we will
we're - we are
we've - we have
weren't - were not
what'd - what did
what'll - what shall / what will/ what all
what're - what are/what were
what's - what has / what is / what does
what've - what have
when's - when has / when is
where'd - where did
where're - where are
where's - where has / where is / where does
where've - where have
which's - which has / which is
who'd - who would / who had / who did
who'd've - who would have
who'll - who shall / who will
whom'st - whom hast
whom'st'd've - whom hast had have
who're - who are
who's - who has / who is / who does
who've - who have
why'd - why did
why're - why are
why's - why has / why is / why does
won't - will not
would've - would have
wouldn't - would not
y'all - you all (colloquial/Southern American English)
y'all'd've - you all would have (colloquial/Southern American English)
you'd - you had / you would
you'll - you shall / you will
you're - you are
you've - you have
noun's - noun is (possessive forms of many nouns are homographic to this contraction)
noun(s)'re - noun(s) are (forms of many nouns are homographic to this contraction)

here we go again - said to indicate that the same events, typically undesirable ones, are recurring
here we go - used when something is just beginning to happen or move

not fussed/not bothered - I have no preference/I'm happy with any suggestion

hit the spot - to satisfy something, such as hunger or a craving; to be correct or accurate
